So in an earlier video in this section of the course
I briefly discussed the package statement
and shared an example of its use
as well as several samples of import statements.
In this video, I wanna discuss some of the mistakes
you can make with the package and import statements
just to make sure you're not caught out in the exam.
So we're gonna start a project,
we need to start by creating a new class,
we're gonna call this one package tests.
Gonna go ahead and do that in the root folder.
Other words my package, package tests.
There's the code.
Very simple code as you can see
simple class just a starting point for our conversation
about package statements.
And as you can see at the moment we don't declare one
and we don't need to it's not mandatory.
We run the code.
We get the output package tests.
So let's add a line of code just before
the class definition on line six.
I'm just gonna type package, semi-colon enter there
so this is actually a compiler error,
it is not the same as not defining a package.
A class with no package declaration is part
of the unnamed package.
So we change this from package to package default.
This too is a compiler error,
the folder is not a valid package name.
What we can do, is replace the package statement
and set a default.
Which turns it to the same name as the class,
I.e package tests.
See the warning down in the bottom left hand corner
of IntelliJ, package name package tests does not correspond
to the file path.
This is not actually a compiler error, IntelliJ
wants us to create a directory structure
that has this directory in it, but ignore this
for the moment, which I'll do and I'm gonna
run the code.
And you can see the code actually works as is.
This proves that the package name can be
the same name as a class name, including a class
in that package.
And in addition, its good practise
but not a requirement to create a directory structure
that matches your package definitions.
So let's try doing something else, let's try
and add a second package statement
so I'm gonna on the second line type
package a dot b, semicolon,
well this is a definite no-no since I need
one package statement to support it.
So let's remove the first package statement altogether.
We're gonna need the second one there,
and I'm gonna let IntelliJ move this class
to the A package,
so I'm just gonna come over here,
select the option to move to package A,
and if we have a look in our folder now,
we can see we've got a package A dot B and
there's a package test in it.
We've got no errors or warnings showing in our source code.
All right I just opened that again because
I need to create a new class now, let's do that.
New java class in the root.
Well, I say it's in the root but we're gonna type
in the package first, so A dot C dot import, tests.
Paste the code in, and you can see this time that
we've now got A dot B with our package tests
and A dot C for package without import tests.
And you can see in the actual code,
I've included two redundant import statements.
Although your IDE would probably remove these statements,
you should be aware that they don't produce
a compiler error,
and your code works you run with these statements.
I'll do that to confirm, there her is.
We get the expected output.
So let's explore some other import statements here.
There's that one and that's the uh comment says,
import A dot status includes classes defined in A
but not in A dot B.
And you're looking at our package structure there,
to the left hand side.
In this scenario, it wouldn't include package tests.
So it is important here to note that
although packages appear to be hierarchical,
like the directories that represent them
on the file system
they actually are not.
A class that is a member of package A dot B
is not a member of package A.
So moving on, let's add some code to our main method now.
And here we're gonna paste some code, simply execute
package test.
We have got an error here, and so IntelliJ was trying
to do an import for us, cannot resolve simple
package tests.
And the reason we're getting a compiler error,
because import A dot star that I added on line twelve
doesn't import A dot B, dot package tests.
Let's change this last import to
A dot B dot package tests
dot star.
So interestingly there, this is not a compiler error,
although it's got no meaning for us and it also
doesn't fix our compiler error on line seventeen.
We can see IntelliJ is still trying to do
an import for us.
So if we change this import now going back to make it
A dot B dot package star, this important statement
tries to use the world car, the asterisks,
to import classes that start with package,
and note that this doesn't work in Java.
The world cars only used to import old classes.
So if we go back and just replace this with typing
in the exact name, import A dot B dot package tests,
no more compiler errors, we run the code,
and we get the required output.
All right, let's create another class now.
Source folder, and we'll call this one
A dot number.
Paste in the code.
So this class is demonstrating that you can name your
class the same as the class in the java dot lang package.
So it's got two instanced variables, one of
top number, the other of java dot lang dot number.
It's got two constructors, one that takes a number,
the other that takes a java dot lang dot number.
And moving on down, looking at the main method,
just demonstrates creating instances of both.
If you run the code, I don't think there's no errors,
everything works as it should.
Now let's go back to the top and add one import.
Obviously I need to add that below the package.
In fact, right after the package.
Statements import java dot lang dot number.
So I've said that this line of code is unnecessary,
but not only is it unnecessary, it's now a problem
resulting in compiler errors, because now
number becomes a defined entity, and we can then
not create another class named number.
All right, so I'm gonna remove that import, and
we're back to what we were before.
Everything's working.
All right, so I'll finish the video here,
in the next one, I want to revisit the import
static statements, and explore what happens when two
of your classes have the same static variables.
See you in the next video.